# zyBooks
## 1.9 LAB: High Array

Part-1 To the HighArray class in the highArray.java program, add a method called getMax() that returns the value of the highest key in the array, or –1 if the array is empty. Add some code in main() to exercise this method. You can assume all the keys are positive numbers.

Part-2 Modify the method in Programming Part-1 so that the item with the highest key is not only returned by the method, but also removed from the array. Call the method removeMax().

Part-3 The removeMax() method in Programming Part-2 suggests a way to sort the contents of an array by key value. Implement a sorting scheme that does not require modifying the HighArray class, but only the code in main(). You’ll need a second array, which will end up inversely sorted.

The code in the main() method should produce output as follows:

77 99 44 55 22 88 11 0 66 33

Can't find 35
Deleting 00, 55, 15
77 99 44 22 88 11 66 33

getMax() returned 99

After calling removeMax()
77 44 22 88 11 66 33

Sorting using removeMax()
88 77 66 44 33 22 11

I may change the values in the array when testing your code.

## 1.10 LAB: Ord Array

In this exercise we will use the OrdArray class used in OrdArrayApp.java. You may add further methods to OrdArray if you need.

Write a program to simulate the following menu:

* Fill array
* Add a number
* Find the index of a number
* Remove number at index
* Quit

##### We suggest that you develop your program incrementally. Meaning one menu item at a time. If it works correctly, add another one and so on.

In the main method, an integer is read to be the seed for **the Random() class you will need to use to pull random numbers**.
Do not use Math.random()

1. The value of the seed determines the random numbers that get generated by calls to rnd.nextInt(99)+1;
2. This seed is passed to the OrddArray constructor.
3. So the constructor OrdArray(int seed, int size) takes two parameters, the first is the seed for the Random class and the second is the size of the array to create.
4. In the main method, an OrdArray object with size 10 is created.

You need to add code to **1. call the right ordArray function** when an item gets selected from the menu in main.cpp:
1. Fill array: read how many numbers to fill (the length of the partially filled array). Fill the ordered array with random numbers 1-99 inclusive. The number of elements should be equal to the value specified by the user.
2. Add a number: If array is full displays a message indicating that, otherwise add a random number in the correct position to the sorted array.
3. Find the index of a number: Displays the index of a number specified by the user if it exists otherwise a message saying that the number is not found.
4. Remove number at index: Ask the user to enter the index. Remove the number at the specified index or display error message if the specified index is outside the current partially filled array size.

**You need to **2. add the following methods to the OrdArray class**:
fillArray(int n) where n is the count numbers to fill the OrdArray with.
addNumber(int n)where n is number to add to the end of the array if there is room. Do nothing if there is no room left. Remember the array takes a maximum of 10 numbers.
findIndex(int num) returns the index of num if num exists in the array. If there are more than one value in the array, return the index of the first one.
removeIndex(int idx) where idx is the array index of the number to remove. If valid, the numbers of elements is reduced by 1. If not valid, do nothing.

**So fillArray() in the Main class calls fillArray(n)** of the OrdArray class. The same applies with the other methods.

Display the ordered array before displaying the menu is displayed.
Examples: Menu is not shown.
Input
Seed = 3; 1 is fillArray; 7 numbers

3
1 7

Output contains

22 51 52 79 80 91 93

Input
Seed = 3
1 fillArray; 7 numbers
2 addNumber; 50

3 
1 7
2 50

Output contains

22 50 51 52 79 80 91 93

Input
Seed = 3
1 fillArray; 7 with 7 numbers
3 findIndex of 22

3 
1 7
3 22

Output contains

22 51 52 79 80 91 93 
Index = 0

Input
Seed = 3
1 fillArray; 7 with 7 numbers
4 remove number at index 3

3 
1 7
4 3

Output contains

22 51 52 80 91 93

## 2.17 LAB Two Sorted Arrays
lab activity
2.17.1: LAB Two Sorted Arrays
8 / 8

Given two sorted arrays, arrayA[] and arrayB[] of size a and b each, rearrange the two arrays such that A[] holds the first smallest elements and B[] the remaining elements.
Write method public static void rearrange(int[] arrayA, int[] arrayB)

Example:
If start with:
arrayA[] = { 1, 4, 7, 8, 12 }
arrayB[] = { 2, 3, 10 }

The result:
arrayA[] = { 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 }
arrayB[] = { 8, 10, 12 }

The idea is simple. Consider each array element A[] and ignore it if it is already in the correct order (i.e., the element smallest among all remaining elements); otherwise, swap it with the smallest element, which happens to be the first element of B[]. After swapping, move the element (now present at B[0]) to its correct position in B[] to maintain the sorted order. Using a temp variable when swapping is of course allowed. The steps are shown below:
arrayA = {1,4,7,8,12}
arrayB = {2,3,10} smallest=2

arrayA = {1,2,7,8,12}
arrayB = {4,3,10} move B[0]
arrayB = {3,4,10} smallest=3

arrayA = {1,2,3,8,12}
arrayB = {7,4,10} move B[0]
arrayB = {4,7,10} smallest=4

arrayA = {1,2,3,4,12}
arrayB = {8,7,11} move B[0]
arrayB = {7,8,11} smallest=7

arrayA = {1,2,3,4,7}
arrayB = {12,8,11} move B[0]
arrayB = {8,11,12} smallest=8

Write a program to read an integer representing a seed used to initialize the Random object, and read the two array sizes a and b.

Fill arrayA first then arrayB with random numbers 1-99 then sort and display them. You may use java.util.Arrays: 

Arrays.sort(arrayA)

Apply the above arrange algorithm and display the resulting two arrays. 

You may not use a third array , if so,  you'll earn no credit for the entire lab.

Here is an actual run input representing seed 0,  fill arrayA with 5 numbers and arrayB with 3 numbers
Input

0 5 3


Output

Input:
Array 1
18 34 39 62 86
Array 2
3 36 40

Output:
Array 1
3 18 34 36 39
Array 2
40 62 86


Where "Input:" represents the two arrays initial contents
and "Output:" represents the contents of the two arrays after calling rearrange(arrayA, arrayB)


## 3.9 LAB Decimal to Binary

In the Main class, read a decimal number, then print the equivalent binary number.
Write method public static String decimalToBinary(int decimal) that converts
decimal to binary using a stack and returns the binary number as String.
You can use the method Integer.toString(number) to convert a number to String.

Examples

Input
99
Output
1100011

Input
10
Output
1010

Input
39
Output
100111


## 3.17 LAB: Reverse Queue

Given a queue of integers. Similar to reversing a string using a stack we want to reverse the contents of the queue. To the Queue class, add a method reverse() that changes the order of the queue elements in reverse using a stack.
Input

10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

The first number 10 is the count of the numbers that follow to be added to an empty queue.

Output

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1


4.18 LAB List Remove

To the attached LinkList.java class
1- Add method void removeLast(int n): it deletes the last occurrence of an item from a linked list.
So if the item to remove is 7 and the list is 1 3 7 4 7 3 7 2
the resulting list is 1 3 7 4 7 3 2

In main() read an int n representing the number of elements in the list. You then repeat n times: read number and call insertFirst(number) . Lastly another int remove is read to indicate which number to remove. Example:

Input: 8 numbers, removeLast(7)

8
2 7 3 7 4 7 3 1
7

Output:

List (first-->last): 1 3 7 4 7 3 7 2 
theList.removeLast(7)
List (first-->last): 1 3 7 4 7 3 2 

2-Add method void removeAll(int n): it deletes all occurrences of an item n from a linked list.
So if the item is 7 and the list1 is 1 3 7 4 7 3 7 2
the resulting list1 is 1 3 4 3 2

Example: Input: 7 numbers, removeAll(1)

7 
1 2 3 4 5 1 2
1

Output:

List (first-->last): 2 1 5 4 3 2 1 
theList.removeAll(1)
List (first-->last): 2 5 4 3 2 

## 4.19 LAB Priority DoublyLinkedList

Implement a priority queue using a DoublyLinkedList.java where the node with the highest priority (key) is the right-most node.

The remove (de-queue) operation returns the node with the highest priority (key).
If displayForward() displays List (first-->last) : 10 30 40 55
remove() would return the node with key 55.

Modify DoublyLinkedList.java to add the two methods:
void priorityInsert(long key)
void priorityRemove()

The first number of the input is the count of numbers to be added to the priorityList. Example

Input
9
22 44 66 11 33 55 10 70 30
Output
List (first-->last): 10 11 22 30 33 44 55 66 70 
List (first-->last): 10 11 22 30 33 44 55 66 

Input
11
89 26 80 36 29 40 18 45 16 54 17
Output 
16 17 18 26 29 36 40 45 54 80 89 
16 17 18 26 29 36 40 45 54 80  

## 4.21 LAB Recursion

1- We have bunnies standing in a line, numbered 1, 2, … The odd bunnies (1, 3, ..) have the normal 2 ears. The even bunnies (2, 4, ..) we'll say have 3 ears, because they each have a raised foot. Recursively return the number of "ears" in the bunny line 1, 2, … n (without loops or multiplication).

bunnyEars2(0) → 0
bunnyEars2(1) → 2 //(2+ bunnyEars2(0))
bunnyEars2(2) → 5 //(3+ bunnyEars2(1))
Write method int bunnyEars2(int n)

2- Given a non-negative int n, return the sum of its digits recursively (no loops). Note that mod (%) by 10 yields the rightmost digit (126 % 10 is 6), while divide (/) by 10 removes the rightmost digit (126 / 10 is 12).

sumDigits(126) → 9
sumDigits(49) → 13
sumDigits(12) → 3
Write method int sumDigits(int num)

3- Define a recursive rangeSum(from, to) method that calculates and prints the sum of numbers between the two values inclusive.

rangeSum(1,5) -> 15
rangeSum(1,5) -> 1+2+3+4+5=15
rangeSum(-3,4) -> -3+-2+-1+0+1+2+3+4=4
Write method int rangeSum(int from, int to)

4-Given an array of ints, compute recursively if the array contains somewhere a value immediately followed by that value times 10. We'll use the convention of considering only the part of the array that begins at the given index. In this way, a recursive call can pass index+1 to move down the array. The initial call will pass in index as 0.

arrayX10([1, 2, 20], 0) → true
arrayX10([3, 30], 0) → true
arrayX10([3], 0) → false
Write method boolean arrayX10(int[] nums, int index)

5- We have triangle made of blocks. The topmost row has 1 block, the next row down has 2 blocks, the next row has 3 blocks, and so on. Compute recursively (no loops or multiplication) the total number of blocks in such a triangle with the given number of rows.
triangle(0) → 0
triangle(1) → 1
triangle(2) → 3
Write method int triangle(int rows)

6- Given an array of ints, compute recursively the number of times that the value 11 appears in the array. We'll use the convention of considering only the part of the array that begins at the given index. In this way, a recursive call can pass index+1 to move down the array. The initial call will pass in index as 0.
array11([1, 2, 11], 0) → 1
array11([11, 11], 0) → 2
array11([1, 2, 3, 4], 0) → 0
Write method int array11(int[] nums, int index)

7- Given an array of ints, compute recursively if the array contains a value equal to Val. We'll use the convention of considering only the part of the array that begins at the given index. In this way, a recursive call can pass index+1 to move down the array. The initial call will pass in index as 0.
array6([1, 6, 4], 0, 6) → true
array6([1, 4], 0, 5) → false
array6([7], 0, 7) → true
Write method boolean arrayVal(int[] nums, int index, int Val)


## 4.22 LAB Recursion List

Based on the article (code in Java) in

https://ics.uci.edu/~pattis/ICS-H22/lectures/llrecursion/

To the LinkList class in LinkList.java, add the following recursive methods:
int recGetLength()
void recReversePrint()
Link recSearchFor(int n)
void recRemoveFirst(int n) // first occurrance of n if exists
void recRemoveAll(int n)
void recPrint()

Note: Since recGetLength() takes no parameters, it needs to call another recursive method that takes a Link first as a parameter.
You can overload method recGetLength() with another one recGetLength(Link lnk). So recGetLength() can call recGetLength(first).

Input consists of a number n indicating the count, followed by a list of n key values to insert in the LinkList. Example: Input

7
22 44 66 88 44 11 44

Output

44 11 44 88 66 44 22 
List length = 7

recReversePrint:
22 44 66 88 44 11 44 

recSearchFor(45)
45 was not found

44 11 44 88 66 44 22 
recRemoveFirst 44
44 was found
11 44 88 66 44 22 

recRemove all 44
44 was found
11 88 66 22 


